---EXPLANATION---

So the java source code is published here as part of my thesis. It was added to 
intermittently between 2009-2014, since then I have a become a software developer
as a career. The code here has been made publicly available as part of the publication
of my thesis. However I do not expect it to of any real use to anyone else, it 
has been made available as a matter of principle. It may contain errors, be of poor 
quality and no longer represents my current level of skill.


---GENERAL---

Eddie v4.7

Currently requires

Java 1.6
Connection to MySQL database
Ant to compile
Several java libraries found in the lib/ folder

See https://github.com/EnderDom/Eddie for more details

Make sure Eddie_libs paths are correct in the Eddie.jar MANIFEST 

Should create a eddie.properties file and logs folder 
as well as a few other folders depending on what tasks are running

---COMPILE---
Currently requires ant to compile (easily), this all needs to be done in
a console/terminal

If your not sure, check you have ant:
ant -version

Move into the directory and clean any old builds:
ant clean

Rebuild the project:
ant build

Create a jar file (Only works after you run ant build and have not cleaned):
ant createjar

---RUNNING---

To Run:
java -jar Eddie.jar

For General help menu
java -jar Eddie.jar -h

Each task is specified by a task name, for a list 
java -jar Eddie.jar -tasklist

For task specific help use -opts
java -jar Eddie.jar -task taskname -opts

---ECLIPSE---
The eclipse classpaths and project files i've left in an edited so they 
should work anywhere. To import it, copy the whole git folder into your 
eclipse workspace then in eclipse File->Import ... Import Existing Projects 
in workspace. Hopefully if the version isn't too disimilar it will import
fine and you can then edit it in eclipse.

---TROUBLESHOOTING---

Common Errors:

1)	Starting Eddie Java Application
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: 
org/apache/commons/cli/ParseException at 
enderdom.eddie.main.Eddie.main(Eddie.java:22)


Check that the 'lib' folder is in the same folder as the Eddie.jar
file or that the path to the lib folder is the same as the path in 
the manifest file within the jar (jar is just a zip folder so you
 can open it as such)


---PROPERTIES---

Configuration file is eddie.properties, should spawn next to Eddie.jar
some of the properties are no longer in use
but lurk, cos, well I not sure why but they do.

Important Properties are:

[DBTYPE] The type of database, as of this update only mysql is supported
[DBDRIVER] The database driver will be something like com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
[DBNAME] The name of the database eddie will use
[DBUSER] the username for the database

Note: passwords are not stored, because I don't really know what I'm doing 
in that regard. They are stored in RAM whilst the program uses them to access 
the database but will be removed each time the program shuts down.

[BLAST_DB] Location of a local blast database folder (Where stuff like 
nr.00.phd should be) 
[BLAST_BIN] Location of the binary folder (Where the blast binaries are
(but not the filepath of an individual program, the programs have to be
the default ie blastn or blastn.exe depending on OS)
[UNIVEC_URL] Where the univec database is located online, hopefully it
won't change



---LICENCE---

LGPL v3 (See http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html)